# MyAS
Final Year Project at the University of Bath: Using smartphone ans sensor technology to facilitate non-pharmacological treatments in Rheumatology patients.

# Abstract
People with chronic diseases do not only struggle with the physical aspect of the disease, but the emotional and mental one as well. Accordingly, the treatment model has now transformed to include both pharmacological and non-pharmacological aspects. This project focuses specifically on Ankylosing Spondylitis (AS), a chronic inflammatory condition that affects the connecting or supporting structures of the body. AS patients' pharmacological treatment is long-term and complex.
Moreover, AS treatment highly encourages involving exercise as a non-pharmacological treatment to improve mobility. Yet adherence to either treatment is generally low due to many factors; particularly with AS patients, this is affected by people's emotions or their lack of understanding or appreciation of the impact exercise has on their condition. In recognising the chronicity of AS disease and its increasing prevalence, this project sets to identify and improve the factors that lead to treatment non-adherence. It aims to realise the tools and information necessary that will better help AS patients manage their overall health. This involves educating the patients about the disease and treatment process; building confidence and relieving fear. It also emphasises the importance of self-management strategies such as relaxation, goal setting, exercise, joint protection techniques and the appropriate use of exercise. The contributions of this project can be seen as identifying and stressing the need for consideration and innovation in the delivery of therapeutic treatments and content, and what form that should take. 

This was delivered by designing appropriate technologies to address the challenges and findings in the field, by including a self-management prototype tailored to help and support AS patients to self-manage and adhere to treatments. This contributes to previous works on patient care as it additionally addresses the various non-pharmacological aspects of care.

Furthermore, the exercise recognition app uses smartphone and sensor technology to explore the impact of real-time feedback on exercise performance and adherence. This project has presented the successful implementation of real-time multimodal feedback as supported by user testing and system evaluation presenting a short recovery time. The use of wearable sensors increases the user's awareness of their movement, allowing them to monitor their own progress based on the real-time feedback received. 
